Docker - introduction closes #480 (#492)
bob-crutchley/courseware: topics/docker/README.md

# Docker

<!--TOC_START-->
## Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Containerization](#containerization)
- [Containers vs Virtual Machines](#containers-vs-virtual-machines)
- [Linux installation](#linux-installation)
	- [Using Docker Commands Without Sudo on Linux](#using-docker-commands-without-sudo-on-linux)
- [Windows & MacOS Installation](#windows--macos-installation)
- [Try out Docker](#try-out-docker)
- [Modules](#modules)

<!--TOC_END-->
## Overview

> **Docker** is an open source tool that benefits both developers and system administrators, which is why it has become so popular as a "DevOps" tool. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Docker** is an open source tool that benefits both developers and system administrators, which is why it has become so popular as a "**DevOps**" tool. 
```

> Developers should be able to focus on developing code and not have to worry about environment configuration issues, *Docker* is a solution for this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers should be able to focus on developing code, without worrying about configuring their environments,

 **Docker** provides a solution for this.
```

 
It uses containers to keep environments consistent; whether the code is running on production setup or a developer’s laptop.

> While being the most popular container engine there are some alternatives to Docker that are worth mentioning:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though Docker is the most popular container engine, there are several alternatives which are worth mentioning:
```

- **rkt**
- **LXD**
- **Linux VServer**
- **Windows Containers**

> ## Containerization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Containerisation
```

> The definition of a **container** is "an object for holding or transporting something". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like with real-life shipping containers, developers use **containers** for holding or transporting code.

```

> Effectively, containerisation is a much more lightweight alternative to virtual machines, whilst still having the benefits of encapsulating (isolating from everything else) an application in its own operating environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Effectively, **containerisation** is a much more lightweight alternative to **virtual machines**, whilst still having the benefits of *encapsulating* (isolating from everything else) an application in its own operating environment.
```

Reviewer: This might be too technically-written for some readers, as there's a lot of jargon

## Containers vs Virtual Machines

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several reasons why developers might use containers over virtual machines:
```

**Containers:**
- Containers use the same kernel (the core of the operating system) that the host operating system is using
- Resources are shared between containers where it is possible
- Extremely fast startup time

> **VS**

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

**Virtual Machines:**
- Virtual machines must emulate an entire computer to support an operating system
- There is complete separation between machines
- Far more resources are used to isolate the hosted application

![Containers VS VM's](https://imgur.com/gYBBO9w.jpg)

## Linux installation

To install *Docker* on *Linux* we can use a remote script for installing *Docker* on most distributions easily.

`
curl https://get.docker.com | sudo bash
`

### Using Docker Commands Without Sudo on Linux

> On *Linux*, to be able to run *Docker* commands without having to prefix them all with sudo, we can add users to the *docker* group, once you have added your user to the *docker* group, ensure that you restart your shell session so that the change takes effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On *Linux*, to be able to run *Docker* commands without having to prefix them all with `sudo`, we can add users to the *docker* group.

Once you have added your user to the *docker* group, ensure that you restart your shell session so that the change takes effect.
```

```shell script
# add yourself to the docker group, the remote script suggested above will
# have already created the docker group for you
sudo usermod -aG docker $(whoami)
```

> ## Windows & MacOS Installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Windows & macOS Installation
```

*Docker* can be installed on *Windows (exe)* and *Mac (dmg)* through this link:

> `https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop`

Reviewer: Maybe use `[here](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)` instead?

For this method you will be required to create a *Docker* account.

## Try out Docker

Give *Docker* a go by running a **hello world container**. 

> Use a **docker run** command to start the *container*, you will see *Docker* download the image then run it, the script in the *hello-world container* will create an output which describes what just happened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a `docker run` command to start the *container*.

 You will see *Docker* download the image, then run it.
 
  The script in the *hello-world container* will create an output which describes what just happened.
```
